>> Jason Lengstorf: The starter
has a few things in it so
that we don't have to write all
of the code from scratch, but for
this first part,
we're gonna be developing a theme.
And to develop themes in Gatsby,
we need something called yarn workspaces.
So a yarn workspace is
a way that we are able to
work on two packages simultaneously.
So typically speaking, if you're working
on a site if you wanna use a package,
you would yarn install the package name
and it goes into your package JSON and and
then you can work on it.
But if you wanna make
a change to that package,
then you would have to publish it to NPM.
And then reinstall it at
latest to get those changes.
And that's really cumbersome and
we just don't wanna do that, right?
So what yarn workspaces will let us do
is it lets us hook up a local folder as
a package.
So once you've got yarn workspaces set up,
we can set our theme as a package
that we can yarn install.
But it will do it in a way that if we make
local modifications that will get picked
up by the site that we're developing with.
And that's important because
Gatsby themes are designed to take
configuration options.
And that means that they
don't run standalone.
They have to be installed by another
site in order to function properly.
So, what we're gonna do first is we
are going to create a folder for
the theme.
So I typically call this packages
because it's something that wouldn't be
done top level.
You can call it whatever you want,
there's not a hard and
fast naming convention here.
This is just what I picked up,
you're welcome to do whatever you like.
And then I'm gonna use
the name of the package.
So we'll do gatsby-theme-docs.
And inside of this, I'm gonna open
up my terminal and get into it.
Let's go into packages, gatsby-theme-docs.
And then I'm going to run yarn init.
And what this will do is it's
gonna ask us some questions.
So the name yes,
I wanted to be gatsby-themed-docs.
And it's important to
remember that because that is
what we're gonna have to use.
Like we will do yarn workspace and
the name of the package.
And an important note about Gatsby themes,
the Gatsby theme at
the beginning is important.
You have to name your theme
with Gatsby dash theme.
That's part of how we work
the shadowing algorithm.
So when you're building a custom theme,
you always need to use Gatsby theme.
Then we can keep the version default
we don't need a description.
The index.js entry point is fine.
We'll skip that use default, okay?
So once we have that,
when we look into our package Jason,
we can see here that
we've got the theme docs.
And that's gonna be
the name of our workspace.
So to set up work spaces we're
gonna go out to the theme route,
and we're going to create a package.json.
And this one's a little
different from the average one.
So first we're gonna set it to private
because it has to be private in order for
workspaces to function.
You can't publish a workspace.
Then we're gonna set up workspaces,
which is an array.
And we're gonna set this up
to read from two folders.
The first one is gonna be
the packages folder because we
wanna be able to use that
theme that we just created.
And the second one is the site's folder.
So we've got a bunch of sites in here.
So we're gonna say
anything inside of sites,
you should also read as a workspace.
Once we're in here,
then I can do yarn workspaces info.
And what it'll show us is each of
these sites shows up as a package.
It’ll show us where it lives.
Then, it’ll show us if we have
any workspace dependencies.
We can see here at the beginning,
none of these sites have
any workspace dependencies.
Now, this one does, but
we’re not gonna worry about that,
because it’s not really relevant
to what we’re doing today.
And then we've got our gatsby-themed-docs,
which is set up in here properly.
So what we do need to figure out though,
is one thing that's
important to know about packages
is that packages rely on this
main folder to determine whether or
not the package exists.
So when you install a package if you try
to use it, the first thing that node will
do is it'll look into that name and make
sure that whatever the file is exists, and
if it doesn't,
it'll say that the package is invalid.
So we're not actually
gonna use an index js.
So we're just gonna create it and
then make a little note so
that people know that this is intended.
It's kind of like this page
intentionally left blank sort of thing.
You can put whatever you want in there.
I boop is like my standard silly comment.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Once this is set up,
now we can set up the theme dev site.
So we're just gonna create a whole
new site inside of our site's folder,
we'll call it theme-dev.
And again,
we're gonna pull up the terminal,
go into the,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Sites/theme-dev and
then we will yarn init again.
And this time we'll keep the name
theme-dev, keep the version,
description, all that can stay the same.
But what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna set
the private on this one to true because
typically speaking, you don't wanna
publish a website as a package on npm net.
You could, but there's not
really a good reason to do that.
So then in here,
we're gonna have our package JSON and
it's set to private so
that we don't accidentally publish it.
In this, I can now add a few things.
In the end there's a small difference.
Typically when you add packages in yarn or
NPM, you do NPM install or yarn add.
So with workspaces,
we just prefix the ad with the name
of the workspace we wanna use.
So I'm gonna say yarn workspace
theme-dev and then I'm gonna add.
And now, I can just add whatever I want.
So I'll do gatsby react and react-dom.
And we'll just check out in here
that this is gonna do what we want.
So it's installing
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay all right,
so it showed up the way we expected.
So now what we wanna do is
we wanna install our theme.
yarn workspace theme-dev add, and
then to quote it out for
Windows and SeaShell.
We'll say gatsby-theme-docs @* and
@* just means that node
will be okay with the fact that
it's not a published package.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So once we get that,
we'll see it pop up in our package JSON.
And here we go.
So now if I run yarn
workspaces info again.
And this is where it should be portal.
Then I can see if I look at our theme-dev,
now we've got workspace
dependencies in here.
And what this means is that
gatsby-theme-docs is being treated as
a package it will work exactly the same
as a package installed from NPM.
But the benefit now is that
it's using local file.
So when I make changes to this
gatsby-themed-docs folder up
here in the top left,
that will reflect in the theme-dev site
as if it were downloaded from NPM.
So, next we're going to
get into our theme-dev and
we're going to install this theme.
So let's just go ahead and
create a gatsby-config.js.
This is gonna be kind of the heart
of any standard Gatsby site.
So let me drop this down a little bit and
we'll say module.exports and
that's going to be a config object.
And inside of this we're
gonna have a plug-ins array.
And the way that you install a theme in
Gatsby by default, if you wanna use all
the default options and everything,
is you can just drop it right in there.
So we're gonna say gatsby-theme,
if I can spell it, gatsby-theme-docs.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And upon saving this,
we are now effectively using this theme.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
it won't do anything right now, but
it won't explode if I start it.
So I'm going to come in here, and
I'm just gonna add some scripts so
that we can start Gatsby
from the command line.
So let's add a scripts key.
And we'll put in develop, and our develop
command is gonna be gatsby develop.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So now, what I should
be able to do, and this is an empty site,
so it's just gonna give us a 404.
But I can do yarn workspace
theme-dev develop.
And this should start our gatsby site
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, so we're up and
running and we can see now that it
exists so if I switch out to here.
And run the page we can see that Gatsby
is running, we don't have any content or
anything in herebBut it's doing what we
expect it is actually loading the page.
So that puts us in a position
that we wanna be in,
which is that we can start
actually developing on the site.
So this is kind of
the workspace is set up.
That's that's where you for any theme-dev,
this is where you're gonna wanna start
basically
>> Jason Lengstorf: So let's go ahead and
commit that.
I'm gonna check out a new branch.
So we'll do git check out branch.
And we'll call this
fernan masters progress.
And I'm going to check git status,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay,
and I'm just gonna add everything.
>> Jason Lengstorf: This
shows is in our queue and
we've got a pack of json which is for
work spaces,
then we've got our gatsby-theme-docs
the packages on the index.
The gatsby-config and the package.json for
the theme dev site, and then a yarn.lock,
which is just tracking dependencies.
So I'm going to go ahead and commit that.
And I'm gonna use conventional commits.
So we'll say theme-dev,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Workspace setup.